#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #718c00
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Strong self-regulation and widespread facilitative interactions between
 groups of phytoplankton
\end_layout

\begin_layout Abstract
XXX
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
The bibliographic style should be numerical (even if I write something else
 between the brackets when I don't have the time to search for the references).
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We haven't discussed this, but perhaps differences in composition between
 sites can say things about competition that long term time series cannot
 – cf.
 Tuck 2018 Ecology Letters for an appreciation of the ghost of competition
 past vs.
 present.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How species or related genera can coexist together in spite of likely competitio
n is still one of the main puzzles of community ecology, especially for
 primary producers that seemingly share the same basic resources [REFS].
 Many theoretical studies of competition models have shown that competitive
 exclusion is likely in those circumstances [REFs], unless some special
 mechanisms involving spatial or temporal variation are at play [REFs incl.
 Huisman & Weissing, Chesson 1997, Li & Chesson etc.].
 Neutral theory, that in its most basic formulation assumes equal competitive
 abilities [REFs] and non-equilibrium coexistence sustained by immigration
 from a larger pool (but see [REF Volkov papers]) has been proposed as a
 solution to explain highly diverse communities [REFs Hubbell].
 However, the evidence gathered from plant communities starts to suggest
 that, in fact, niche rather than neutral processes may be paramount, with
 intraspecific competition dwarfing [check ENG] interspecific competition
 in most cases [REFs Adler 2010, 2018 paper].
 Whether these conclusions apply to other systems is currently unknown.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Moreover, the meta-analysis by Adler et al.
 [REF Adler 2018] reported a large number of facilitative interactions (30%)
 [I think, check] and reviews [Cooper review with R.
 Michalet and Biogeco team, some other review] have highlighted that in
 fact that facilitation may be much more widespread than ecologists usually
 tend to think.
 Although some theoretical studies suggest that facilitative interactions
 can be destabilizing (sensu resilience) and therefore undermine coexistence
 [REF Coyte 2015], many modelling studies [K.
 Gross Ecol Lett, more stuff] have suggested that facilitative interactions
 can to a large degree benefit coexistence.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Here, we analyse a large dataset of several long-term time series of phytoplankt
on dynamics along the French coastline 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
it would be fantastic if we could make the coastline appear in the Fig.
 1
\end_layout

\end_inset

, using statistical time series models allowing for interactions between
 groups.
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We can mention in the cover letter that we werent sure, after analyzing
 the first dataset, that the finding would replicate at several study sites
 and yet they did, which we is remarkable...
\end_layout

\end_inset

 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Results and discussion
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Using MAR(1) autoregressive models, we have produced interaction matrices
 – Jacobian community matrices on the logarithmic scale [REF Ives 2003]
 – that have two main features.
 First, we observe a strong self-regulation for all sites (Fig.
 1, diagonal elements of all matrices), a feat that we have highlighted
 on a previous, more detailed analysis on one of the considered study sites
 only [Ref Barraquand Oikos].
 Second, although the percentage of facilitative interactions seem to vary
 among sites [insert percentages here], we have found that it is substantial
 for all sites: contrary to our initial expectations, commensalism (the
 interactions are rarely two-way mutualism [check]) seems to be the rule
 rather than the exception.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Float figure
wide false
sideways false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Caption Standard

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Interaction matrices for our multiple study regions and sites 
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
We have to decide how to call Arcachon, Britanny, ...
 perhaps regions are good? 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We then asked whether the stability (resilience) of those matrices was affected
 by the percentage of mutualistic interactions or their connectivity properties
 (Fig.
 2).
 Neither the percentage of mutualistic interactions nor the complexity metrics
 did strongly affect the stability properties, although there was perhaps
 a slight decline with the percentage of mutualistic interactions (but it
 may be simply due to an unbalance in this percentage, usually high, in
 the datasets).
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
More information than sign and the magnitude of interspecific / intergroup
 interactions can be gathered from interaction matrices.
 We investigated whether the matrix has some particular structure that could
 help theoretical ecology to make better null models of joint community
 dynamics and interactions [REF? There's this Am Nat paper by Alex Best
 I think on what's currently amiss with random matrix theory...].
 We defined two scores, vulnerability (summed effect of others on the focal
 species growth rate) and generality (summed effect of the focal species
 onto other species growth rates).
 Species that were more self-regulating also had also a higher vulnerability
 score, and those two influences are likely to trade-off: a high degree
 of self-regulation somehow buffers outside influences.
 Species that were less self-regulating were also more likely to have a
 broad range of effects onto other species [to interpret this we may also
 need to check that they were more abundant, if so I would say that species
 varying broadly have a higher likelihood to generate effects in other species].
 It is important to note, however, that these patterns are weak and there
 is therefore a considerable amount of randomness dominating the interaction
 matrix: many scenarios of self-regulation vs limitation by others are therefore
 possible.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status collapsed

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Perhaps we have to dig a little more in the identity of those species there.
 Can we relate some of the species that have widespread effects on many
 species to traits? Are these always the same in the various regions? In
 the various sites?
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Aside from these trade-offs, some of which promote some stability (sensu
 invariability), we found no remarkable patterns of covariation between
 matrix elements (other than a mean-variance scaling of interaction coefficients
, see SI XXX Fig.
 XXX).
 The big finding of our study seems really to be the presence of very large
 niche differences between the species, translating into a much higher intragrou
p competition, together with a high degree of facilitative net interactions.
 In our previous publication [REF], we have argued that those could arise
 from predation effects that could well create apparent mutualism between
 prey species and strong intragroup density-dependence [REFs].
 This is still very much likely here given our new study regions (Oléron,
 Britanny, Mediterranean) could have similar predators, though there are
 other possibilities.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Finally, we have sought to put these results in a broader context by compiling
 the intra vs.
 inter group estimates of previous MAR(1) studies (detailed in Appendix
 XXX).
 We have found that the order of magnitude of intra/inter interaction strengths
 considered here (
\begin_inset Formula $\approx$
\end_inset

 10) not particularly below those found for most planktonic systems.
 We include in Fig.
 4 not only plankton studies but also a couple of vertebrate or insect studies
 on smaller (less diverse) communities were interactions are stronger.
 The conclusion from this comparison seems to be that any diverse system
 of competitors and facilitators seem to have evolved large niche differences
 making intragroup competition much higher than intergroup interactions.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Float figure
wide false
sideways false
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
\begin_inset Caption Standard

\begin_layout Plain Layout
Intra/intergroup interaction strengths for MAR(1) studies.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
This dominance of niche differentation is similar to what has been found
 in plant community studies [REFs Alder 2018, perhaps Volkov Nature 2007?],
 and might be due to the ghost of the competition past, i.e., selection and
 evolution leading to progressive niche separation.
 Species have evolved niches that allow them not to compete or to interact
 only weakly (very strong facilitative effects might be likewise destabilizing
 [je crois qu'il y a des refs sur les effets non-monotone des interactions
 +, je rechercherai]).
 The predator effects that we highlighted above can be comprised within
 such niche differentation sensu largo: specialized predators can make strong
 conspecific density-dependence emerge [REFs], while switching generalists
 can also promote diversity [REFs, same from Oikos].
 Both predators and resources have often symmetrical effects and can contribute
 to niche differentation [REF to Chesson 2018 J Ecol]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An intriguing new possibility, dubbed the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

ghost of competition
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 present [REF Tuck 2018], suggests that spatial patterns in relation to
 abiotic factors might have a large impact on the patterns inferred from
 interaction models.
 Recent combinations of model fitting and removal experiments have shown
 that the model fitting usually underestimate the effect of competitors
 that are uncovered by removal experiments [Tuck 2018, Adler et al.
 2018b].
 This could occur for instance if species are spatially segregated (at a
 small scale) because each species only exists within a domain where it
 is relatively competitive, while a focal species could spread out if competitor
s were removed.
 This means that a species can be limited by competitors, but act so as
 to minimize competition (a little like avoidance behaviour in animals)
 so that competition is i effect hard to detect when all species are present.
 This would require some fine-scale segregation between phytoplankton species
 at the scale of interactions, i.e., at the microscale.
 At the moment, it is known that turbulence generates inhomogeneities at
 the microscale [REF Barton, new PNAS paper] but it is quite unclear how
 this affects multiple interacting species and which multivariate spatial
 patterns (sensu [REF Murrell & Law 2002]) could be expected.
 Also, even if turbulence generates spatial structure with segregation between
 species, it is not quite clear that the 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

ghost of competition present
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 mechanism could work for plancton, where the turbulence may somehow dictates
 where the plankton patches can or cannot appear.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Note Note
status open

\begin_layout Plain Layout
[Not sure about what I am writing below, some ideas about the resistant
 / benthic life stage – if there were strong competition in a well-mixed
 media but a stage structure, we would still expect to see some degree of
 competition in the pelagic surveys I think – my guess would be that competition
 between the pelagic stage is always weak because of hidden spatial structure,
 and resistant life-stage only adds to this the possibility for 
\emph on
more
\emph default
 coexistence because recolonization from zero without outside flow becomes
 possible.] 
\begin_inset Newline newline
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Plain Layout
A final possibility relates to stage structure.
 We have so far referred to the pelagic component of the phytoplankton community
, which is what is sampled and analysed here.
 However, many of the organisms followed here have resistance form.
 These resistance forms, that can sink to the sea bottom, can easily be
 remobilized in the water column after storms, which combined to a rise
 in irradiance, can generate blooms.
 This may greatly help coexistence by frequent recolonization in the coastal
 and therefore shallow marine habitats that are considered here, and may
 dampen or even hide the possible effects of competition.
 
\end_layout

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Methods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
[Insert here a detailed description of the MAR(1) approach, a little bit
 as we did in the Oikos paper, but perhaps a little more self-contained].
 In general, MAR(1) models tend to be fairly robust to small deviations
 of the underlying data-generating model, provided that one asks mainly
 order of magnitude of coefficients values (rather than very precise estimates)
 and sign of interaction coefficients [REF Certain]
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
We have previously published a very detailed analysis of one of the dataset
 (Arcachon) for which more covariables were available [REF Oikos].
 The analysis of real data was complemented by that of simulated data for
 a plankton time series set-up and confirmed the ability of the technique
 to infer biotic interactions and abiotic forcing [REF Oikos].
 This analysis revealed that the MAR(1) approach was satisfactory (no need
 for extra non-linearities to model the storage effect, which was found
 to be weak as in previous analyses of plant data for which strong-self
 regulation was observed [Adler et al.
 2010, Ellner et al.
 2016].
 We are therefore confident that the MAR(1) models presented here are appropriat
e models; for ease of interpretation we also present the connexion between
 MAR(1) model coefficients and a Beverton-Holt model in SI XX [see also
 Certain et al.]
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
