#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Standard
1.
 The persistence of phytoplanktonic diversity in spite of competition for
 basic resources has long been a source of wonder and inspiration to ecologists.
 To sort out, among the many coexistence mechanisms suggested by theory
 and experiments, which ones actually maintain diversity in natural ecosystems,
 long-term field studies are paramount.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
2.
 We analysed a large dataset of phytoplankton abundance time series using
 dynamic, multivariate autoregressive models.
 Phytoplankton was counted and identified down to the genus level, every
 two weeks over twenty years, at ten sites along the French coastline.
 Multivariate autoregressive models allowed to estimate biotic interaction
 networks, while also accounting for abiotic variables that may drive part
 of the phytoplankton fluctuations.
 We then analysed the ratio of intra- to inter-taxa interactions (measuring
 self-regulation, itself a measure of niche differentiation), the frequency
 of negative vs positive interactions, and how stability metrics (both at
 the network and genus level) relate to network complexity and genus self-regula
tion or abundance.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
3.
 We showed that a strong self-regulation, with competition strength within
 a taxon (genus) an order of magnitude higher than between taxa, was present
 in all phytoplanktonic interaction networks.
 This much stronger intragenus competition suggests that niche differentiation
 - rather than neutrality - is commonplace in phytoplankton.
 Furthermore, interaction networks were dominated by positive net effects
 between phytoplanktonic taxa (on average, more than 50
\backslash
% of interactions were positive).
 While network stability (
\backslash
textit{sensu} resilience) was unrelated to complexity measures, we unveiled
 links between self-regulation, intergenus interaction strengths and abundance.
 The less common taxa tend to be more strongly self-regulated and can therefore
 maintain in spite of competition with more abundant ones.
 
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
4.
 
\backslash
textit{Synthesis}: We demonstrate that strong niche differentiation, widespread
 facilitation between phytoplanktonic taxa and stabilizing covariances between
 interaction strengths should be common features of coexisting phytoplankton
 communities in the field.
 These are structural properties that we can expect to emerge from plausible
 mechanistic models of phytoplankton communities.
 We discuss mechanisms, such as predation or restricted microscale movement,
 that are consistent with these findings, which paves the way for further
 research.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
