data/README.md, before:

This folder contains all data from Quadrige and Meteofrance, as well as intermediate files used in exploratory analyses. 

The *raw* folder contains data extracted from Quadrige database, only with encoding changes. They are not modified in further treatments and constitute a back-up against data loss.

The *flortot_per_site* folder contains intermediate files from Quadrige data processing: for each site, identified with its numerical ID, and then for each location (several ID can correspond to the same location that are a few meters apart; such case is identified in lieu_corres.csv), identified by its name, all taxa are grouped by date and by taxonomic group, following Danièle Maurer's proposition (that is, the group she proposed according to her knowledge of species identification in Arcachon, which depends on the site-specific planktonic species and the knowledge of the local analyst) 

The *classif_old* folder contains the first propositions of classifications. They are actually subsets of identified species: keeping only the ones that were correctly identified in Arcachon (*Arcachon*) or trying to keep only species that were well-resolved at all sites (*proposition*), or trying to differentiate between pennate and centric (*subclass*). They are not used in the rest of the analyses.

The *info_meteo* folder contains locations and distance from our study sites for all MeteoFrance terrestrial sites found in each region of study. The postesMarine.csv file also show information on fixed or moving (embedded) buoys. 

The *analyse_MAR* folder contains all .RData files from MARSS estimates. They are separated per location (BZ=South Brittany, MO=Marennes Oleron, AR=Arcachon, SU=South of France, the Mediterranen sites), and per groups of species selected. The interaction models are specified in the names of the files (null=diagonal matrix, unconstrained means a full interaction matrix, pencen means that pennate and centric cannot interact with each other, diatdin means that diatoms and dinoflagellates cannot interact together but pennate and centric diatoms can, inter means that there are interactions inter-phyla but no intraphyla: a diatom can interact with a dinoflagellate, but not with another diatom). 
The *old* folder contains estimates using the "NEI" group (that is, species that were not identified in the other, more common groups) as a covariate (files are indicated by the use of "cov" in their name) or as a species (files are indicated by the use of "sp" in their name). Hereafter, all analyses are run without this information (which is indicated by the "null" term used in the third position in files' name). 
The *subsite_specific* folder contains MAR estimates for groups of species that are different for each site (for instance, the species interacting in Auger are not the same as the one interacting in LEperon, even though they are both in Marennes-Oleron). For both folders, analyses were ran only with three matrices of interaction: the null-or diagonal- matrix, an unconstrained matrix, or the pennate/centric model, and without bootstrapping to test for significance. Later on, boostrap was used for signifiance.
The *site_specific* folder contains MAR estimates for groups of species that are common to all subsites for the same location (for instance, species are the same for Auger, Cornard and LEperon because they are all in Marennes-Oléron). For the Mediterraen sites, in addition to boostrapping, confidence intervals were built with the Hessian matrix in order to assess the difference of intervals between boostraps and Hessian.
The *common* folder contains two types of estimates, depending on the addition of Arcachon addition. The files with the word "reduced" in their name only use groups of species that are well resoled for each of the 4 locations (meaning that there are only 4 groups). The others did not take into account Arcachon and consider 6 groups of species, but they were only exploratory and coefficients were not tested for signifiance in this case. 

Finally, this folder also contains other files:
- all the files beginning with "corres_hernandez" are the ones that are currently used in the MAR estimates, using groups from Tania Hernandez et al. (2015). Files from Arcachon are Teychan_base.csv and B7_base.csv
- all the files ending with "hyro.txt" contain all covariate variables from REPHY monitoring, for the site we decided to study
- the "lieu_sp.csv" file is only a transcript from F. Barraquand's advice on the species we should use for each site. After a visual analysis, we settled on the groups defined in "lieu_sp_post_reconstruc_pour_MAR.csv".
- local_sites.csv and dsit_intersites.csv were used to have an idea of the distance separating each site

Commit message:

Changed the README in data to add the taxonomy folder description

data/README.md, after:

This folder contains all data from Quadrige and Meteofrance, as well as intermediate files used in exploratory analyses. 

The *raw* folder contains data extracted from Quadrige database, only with encoding changes. They are not modified in further treatments and constitute a back-up against data loss.

The *flortot_per_site* folder contains intermediate files from Quadrige data processing: for each site, identified with its numerical ID, and then for each location (several ID can correspond to the same location that are a few meters apart; such case is identified in lieu_corres.csv), identified by its name, all taxa are grouped by date and by taxonomic group, following Danièle Maurer's proposition (that is, the group she proposed according to her knowledge of species identification in Arcachon, which depends on the site-specific planktonic species and the knowledge of the local analyst) 

The *classif_old* folder contains the first propositions of classifications. They are actually subsets of identified species: keeping only the ones that were correctly identified in Arcachon (*Arcachon*) or trying to keep only species that were well-resolved at all sites (*proposition*), or trying to differentiate between pennate and centric (*subclass*). They are not used in the rest of the analyses.

The *info_meteo* folder contains locations and distance from our study sites for all MeteoFrance terrestrial sites found in each region of study. The postesMarine.csv file also show information on fixed or moving (embedded) buoys. 

The *analyse_MAR* folder contains all .RData files from MARSS estimates. They are separated per location (BZ=South Brittany, MO=Marennes Oleron, AR=Arcachon, SU=South of France, the Mediterranen sites), and per groups of species selected. The interaction models are specified in the names of the files (null=diagonal matrix, unconstrained means a full interaction matrix, pencen means that pennate and centric cannot interact with each other, diatdin means that diatoms and dinoflagellates cannot interact together but pennate and centric diatoms can, inter means that there are interactions inter-phyla but no intraphyla: a diatom can interact with a dinoflagellate, but not with another diatom). 
The *old* folder contains estimates using the "NEI" group (that is, species that were not identified in the other, more common groups) as a covariate (files are indicated by the use of "cov" in their name) or as a species (files are indicated by the use of "sp" in their name). Hereafter, all analyses are run without this information (which is indicated by the "null" term used in the third position in files' name). 
The *subsite_specific* folder contains MAR estimates for groups of species that are different for each site (for instance, the species interacting in Auger are not the same as the one interacting in LEperon, even though they are both in Marennes-Oleron). For both folders, analyses were ran only with three matrices of interaction: the null-or diagonal- matrix, an unconstrained matrix, or the pennate/centric model, and without bootstrapping to test for significance. Later on, boostrap was used for signifiance.
The *site_specific* folder contains MAR estimates for groups of species that are common to all subsites for the same location (for instance, species are the same for Auger, Cornard and LEperon because they are all in Marennes-Oléron). For the Mediterraen sites, in addition to boostrapping, confidence intervals were built with the Hessian matrix in order to assess the difference of intervals between boostraps and Hessian.
The *common* folder contains two types of estimates, depending on the addition of Arcachon addition. The files with the word "reduced" in their name only use groups of species that are well resoled for each of the 4 locations (meaning that there are only 4 groups). The others did not take into account Arcachon and consider 6 groups of species, but they were only exploratory and coefficients were not tested for signifiance in this case. 

The *taxonomy* folder contains the basic correspondance files between groups of species, their codes, and their guild (that is pennate or centric diatoms, dinoflagellates, or other).

Finally, this folder also contains other files:
- all the files beginning with "corres_hernandez" are the ones that are currently used in the MAR estimates, using groups from Tania Hernandez et al. (2015). Files from Arcachon are Teychan_base.csv and B7_base.csv
- all the files ending with "hyro.txt" contain all covariate variables from REPHY monitoring, for the site we decided to study
- the "lieu_sp.csv" file is only a transcript from F. Barraquand's advice on the species we should use for each site. After a visual analysis, we settled on the groups defined in "lieu_sp_post_reconstruc_pour_MAR.csv".
- local_sites.csv and dsit_intersites.csv were used to have an idea of the distance separating each site
